hey everyone welcome back to emerging
alternatives
this is the second video and as promised
it is the van build video
alright first let's roll the intro and then straight onto the video
enjoy guys!
and this is my new Renault Master,
it's from 2007, it has 200,000 kilometers
and it's bright red. Let's see what we
can do with it.
and first order of the day
we'll start with the windows
so there we go, first window in.
Next
we're gonna go on the other side and do
the second window
all right and that's done
also don't forget to give you a little
swipe on the inside
because there are some particles from the cuts and those rust
very quickly
alright so now that the windows are in place
I'll start on the
inside. I'm going to take that out
Well, that's much brighter now!
Alright the floor is in.
We have, at the
very bottom the strips of a foam (Polystyrene)
and then two centimeters of insulation - foam insulation.
then we have, the...
let's call  it bubble wrap
And then we have the one
centimeter plywood
And that will be the floor of the van.
And we're back now, the
floor is finished and we're getting onto the electrical.
The solar panels are
going to end up about here.
The cables will arrive from the roof and I'll get them
directly to the floor, where I'll put my battery
And we're on the roof of the van.
we're putting the air extraction in
which will be... right about here. This is just above what will be the kitchen area
I always double, triple measure
everything. And that's the 95 mil
Alright that's good
The problem is that I can't actually turn
so this is going to have to be plan B
Plan B is from the inside, but....
all right so it doesn't work much better from the inside
oops that was my only blade.
alright and
we're on to plan and "C";  my blade broke
so I'm gonna do it by hand
this is the inside of the ventilation - the extraction
yeah it's perfect.
That was pretty tough, I'm tired!
and we're back on the roof and we are
passing the cables through the roof
for the solar panels, using those those
little metal thingies.
we're all done. The cables are through
now just a little bit of cleanup and we're good.
Shall we insulate the van today?
getting onto the walls so this is the wool that I have
This is mineral and
I think the other one that I have is is glass wool
all right, so I finished most of the sides
here. as you can see with mineral wool
and I will be covering that later on
with our multi-layer; reflecting multi-layer
which will start at
the bottom and go in one piece all around.
As you can see the
multi layer is on at the back of the van
I have put the side panels that came
with the van when I bought it.
It's a process. It takes some time, but i'm happy to do it and it's it's taking shape
slowly so yeah it's quite good.
then
we're moving on to the side windows and
before putting the insulation in I will
put a frame, a wooden frame to go around the window
not to reinforce it but to
create a nice finish for the inside
and let's test this. see how it fits...
That's pretty good
That's a perfect cut.
pretty happy right now
that's pretty cool. it took me a while to do all this
Now I can take it apart and
and put the insulation in.
I've glued the wooden frame to the side of the van. and
it's now drying and I'll be able to put
the insulation in, all around and then
put the multi layer and then I'll put the side panel
and finally we're all
done with the insulation on that side and the ceiling
now let's move on to the
ceiling. this is my line to to get the the center right
and we're getting close to finishing on
the  ceiling and as you can see
those little cables coming outside are
going to be for the lights.
They're the LEDs from Ikea that i'll try to hook up.
and they're pretty flat.
And you just screw them onto the ceiling.
What are
we on to today?
basically the installation is almost finished except
on doors
I decided to add some pallet wood
because it's much easier to do the
finish
and i just screwed on the pallets wood onto the wall.
and cut out the opening for the window
and i will do the same on this side as well. it doesn't need to go that low
it just needs to go till the height of the
bed
and we also have the wires coming out of the wood
so I can get a switch
here for the lights and otherwise that's it a nice finish
hey guys I'm in the
process of building the bed frame
What I'm trying to do is figure out one spot
on that side and find out the exact same
spot on the other side to make sure the
bed is in the middle
the car isn't leveled on the ground the
ground isn't leveled and the van isn't square at all
so it's like building
something in a boat you know it's it's pretty tricky
this is the bar that
will be the main structural part for the bed
it comes from my student
bed and this was the bar that was in the middle
and it's adjustable so I just
put it to the right size
so there's some wood all around so I can screw in
directly the boards that will come on top directly in there
and on the inside
at the back I have two pieces of wood
and one piece of metal on the inside
that prevents it from bending
so that's solid as well
this is the top part of the bed, the top
half and there's going to be a board
sliding on top here and making it a
full-sized bed
and when it's like this this will be a couch
so we'll see how it goes I had it like
mostly I have a something in my mind
about what I wanted the van to look like
but I kind of make it up as I go
I face some problems and I basically
try to find solutions to whatever I have
to make and sometimes there's an easy way
and sometimes it's a hard way and
and most often I go for the easy way
because, you know, I'm not
a carpenter and I try to make things as
solid as I can in the easiest way that
I can as well.
this isn't some Japanese way of attaching would I put a screws everywhere
so there is screw there is glue there is everything I can find; so yeah  it's not perfect
it's not always beautiful but it is what
it is and it's holding so that's that's the main part
when you're building a van,
just don't be surprised everything
like each piece of wood has to be made
individually
you use your eye more than you use your logic and meter so you just
if it looks good then then it is good
the structure for the kitchen cabinets
is done. And we ill have a drawer on each side.
A big drawer here and here we'll have some
doors
I hope everything works
it should be alright I've added this little bit in
the middle just so everything stays into place
when they're sliding in and out. and those as well
I move down to the kitchen cabinets
which I've made.
I haven't really filmed that because it's quite
straightforward you know it's a couple
of boards together. I'm gonna show you
but... there's no handles yet
so i have to grab on the sides to pull them
out.
So yeah, they're uh they're made out of
of what is it like like IKEA kind of
material like, you know like wood and glue
I don't know the name in English.
This one which is like massive come on
there you go it's nice it's bulky it's
heavy it's gonna be here for the next thousand years
Nice sound as well.
I've made some boxes to
go underneath the seating area. those are
the boxes that will support the weight
of the bed
when you're making boxes and
they're exactly the right size they only
go one way they get in and they never
get out yeah
I always forget to get those one or two
mils so they're actually they can
actually slide and I did the mistake on
the first box and I had to take
everything apart and I almost didn't do
it on the second one everywhere there's
like two mil except on the width and
yeah still doesn't fit so I need to take
it apart again and and get those two mils out
and today the van is in a bit
of a mess as you can see full of
little off cuts of wood and the thing is
I'm trying to fit a box here so I can
finally put some insulation into this
so-called oven that is just above the
driving seat. When the Sun reflects
here is just horrible this is just
horrible the whole van just becomes a sauna. So the goal is to put as much insulation
and some reflecting insulation to be
able to reflect some of that heat
outside and make a box so I can put some
stuff in there and yep that's it
What i've  done here
I'm not finished everywhere I still have to
work it out on this side but it was a
bit of a mess here
and I took a piece of wood that I put
underneath and stuck some of this
blanket from Ikea into it so this is
jammed underneath using one of these and
and on the other side it's um it's
jammed underneath the piece of wood so
the piece of wood comes here and holds it
on the ceiling which makes it pretty nice finish
So I'm going to try to do
a lot of the van like that, the non accessible
parts like where I can't really put any
pieces of wood. so I try to do it like maybe
with double sided tape for now it has
worked pretty well.
I will start painting
I'll start with the walls so everything
will be white for now and I will put
some lasure so it's not too too thick and
we can still see the wood through it
then I move on to some white paint and
I'll do the frame the frames here the
frames here and the side of the boxes
as well
so i'm on to the bed now I have screwed
those boards to this parts over here the
goal is to put that metal bar and nail
it so it stays on perfectly and holds
the boards together and it's going to be
easier for the boards to slide it in and out
So the Box become the support
and slides all the way until the the
angles get into one another and
everything becomes flat and does it
slides back in that is the question. Shall we try?
And pushing. And it should lift - perfect
And now. I need handles
it's was kind of hard getting a gripp on the
bed when I pulled it out to test it so
what I'm going to do is put some handles
and for that i'll be drilling some holes
and I'll be using some good old rope so
I have two nice handles that I can use
to pull the bed and hopefully it works
How cool i that?
Yep adopted
There we go, the doors are fully insulated
this is wool, this is foam board, this is wool
Everything is jammed on the side as well as far as can
so yeah, good enough
an now i can put some wood on it
and plug the drill
alright and now i'll drill the other side
so i might want to check from time to time that I'm
not going through the doors. which is what i'm going to do now
and we're good. And the doors are done
looking good
and I'm doing a bit of the finishing so
it looks good on the back of the van
putting some carpet on and it's pretty
easy so I'm not gonna show it in details
but I'm using double-sided tape and cut
the piece to size and just tape it and
just jam everything that I can in
between the wood and the metal and
that's about it alright
so I went in
bougth some colors for the doors and
basically all the openings so the doors
here
the window frame over there and the door
over here will be blue I'll give it a go
see how it looks it's the first first
layer anyway if it looks good I'll leave it like that
if it doesn't I can always
paint another color over it but yeah
it's taking shape a little bit
the van is starting to look pretty good
I'm happy about it
I've always been
pretty bad putting paint only on the top
of the brush and I always end up putting
paints everywhere up to my hand which
isn't the best so i'll try to stay clean here
alright let's go
oh that is very blue
all right I've done like two boards with
blue and it's very very blue it would
probably be a good idea to put a bit of
white in there. I'm gonna try to do a
bit of a color mix. see if I can get
those blues a little lighter so I put
a little bit of white in an old paint box and
I'll add some blue. see how it looks like
what do you think?
I think I'm gonna put a little bit of
white in it not not like this this is
too too light this might be a little too
light as well but that's that's too dark
that's too dark for me all right let's
mix some white this is my blue, this is my white
you ready?
feeling like Tom Cruise in
cocktail
let's check it out
Well, it is still
blue that's for sure
it is a little better I think I can work with that
let's paint
and we're done with the doors everything
has been sanded down so the color isn't
too bright anymore which is good and it
looks a little more rustic nice it's the
same on the other side also I've put
those in so I need to paint those white
as well. there we go
I need one of these here as well and oh
here I have added some bars with a little
bit of an angle here so you can see the
cut and so I can have a nice grab and I
can now slide those in and out easily
same this needs to be painted white
those holes are for my electrical stuff
so that's gonna be like the charge
controller USB charging 12 volt charging
and this will go right here so there
will be a lock here lock here that will
prevent the bed from moving anywhere
while I'm driving it shouldn't anyway but
if I break really hard it might just fly
out
I just need to drill a hole now
let's do it
so I just put those in drilled some
holes put a little bit of pain so it
doesn't show too much and so I'm not
gonna close it right now because
obviously the paint it's wet but yeah it
does fit and so all good next
obviously it would have been easier to do it before I
put the ceiling on but I thought I was
going to put some linen oil and just be
done with it and when I put the linen
oil the ceiling turned yellow so I
decided to paint it so here we go
It's going to be brown blue and white
and moving on to the door
the side door which i've been
neglecting for the past few weeks and
I wanted to do something else than just
insulating so I've been doing some painting
yesterday I've done the frame
yesterday afternoon
which actually takes a fair bit of time
and I painted it before I put it in which
is a lot easier and yesterday I've done
as well some insulating here I put in
some wool fitting in some wool and slide
these closing those
insulation, insulation and then cladding everywhere
until the bottom and then we'll paint it
white yep that's it let's do it
and we're three boards in I put this
one first because I want it to be
aligned with the window and so far so
good it works well
see there's a I mean there's a fair bit
of space here the tight space is here
but I will have enough as well so I
should be fine
putting some lasure on the side door
It pretty much takes the yellow out of the wood
and I'll be sending this and changing
the color to gray instead of brown
because I'm gonna do those gray and you
can't really have like ten colors in the
same like tiny space
What do you like better ? brown or gray ?
yeah I like gray better
not the same light but it
worked i shave my beard as well
Today i moved on to the floor so that's how it looks right now it's actually not too
bad but I will put this floor in. star over here
strip the paper press it in
i'm happy this morning it's freezing cold
but work gets done
and now I can finally
put the LEDs on you know those IKEA
thingy that I installed the cables for
and now I just have to plug them screw
them and connect them to the battery and
it should work
ok I think I got it and the van is
almost done and most of the things are
in as you can see the lights everything
is painted those are in as well I just
need to put the LEDs that I haven't
received yet I've decided to reinforce
the bed so when the bed is open it's it
was a little soft I didn't want it to break
Bonsoir
I'm also working on reinforcing
the inside just to make sure everything
is nice and strong so I'm adding this
vertical here and over here as well I
have space for the bicycle and then the
space for my storage which is good and
this is my battery mess I'm still
working out the cables finally receive
my LEDs and they will go right here
and on the other side so I've gotten
some monochrome LEDs 60 LED/m
I've just cut the LEDs to size and I'm
going to glue them on to the wood
over here and around
awesome and I can dim little eyes as
well 50% 25% or 100% I can make them
blink and all but you know I'm never
gonna use that what I have here for the
back cause I want to put some lights in
here so when it's dark I can access my
stuff a little bit of tape
you have the
connection to the battery cable and we
have the connection to the switch and
the connection to the LED now we just
have to set it up
okay so I've finished hooking up the
LEDs in the back of the car they are
hooked up as well to the main line and
they're connected together with the LEDs
on the ceiling that's a switch and the
LEDs here we can just turn it on
and then I can adjust
I think the brightness that's the one
until it turns off or not now I need to put
all those cables nice and tight because
like everything here is a bit of a mess
so I'll be hooking them up with those little things
this on the floor is going to be the
deck on top of the van on the roof and this is old
pallet wood and that's what I've used on
the inside so I will burn it as the
Japanese do and it's called shou Sugi Ban it's basically like burnt lightly
burn the wood on top and surface and it
just prevents it from molding or getting
damaged with the weather so that's what
I will try to do and then I'll put it on
the roof of the van all right let's do
it
the boards are ready I've waited about
a week, two weeks actually a little more
so it's rained on it
to make sure everything is clean and
doesn't get any black anywhere and I'm
pretty happy with the finish and now is
the time to put them on and they'll go
on there
so that's going to be the time for the
first solar panel
I've connected both of the solar panels together
and connect those to
their cables running down to my van
so the plan is here these i'll put a bolt a
spacer and put it through
put a bit of old tubes to prevent
anything from moving with the vibrations
the roof is done look at that nice deck
so the van is about ten years old and
the plastics are becoming gray
so what  I'm doing is I'm using some product for
bringing the plastic bag as they were
afterwards I'll be able to put some
polish on the car and make the red come
back as well as you can see the
difference here and here
I've been going at it for a couple of hours now
and i'm polishing the car. it's shiny
nice and shiny now. and see the red is coming back nicely
if you compare like this is done and this this isn't
done so you can see the difference over
here over here over here oh yeah
done not done done not done done
i mean it's the final touch so i'm quite happy cause you know it all means that I'm getting towards the end
my job is nearly done for the van so
quite happy where I finished putting the
polish on and the car is kinda shiny hey nice and red
that was a long
video I hope you guys enjoyed it hope it
was useful give it a thumbs up if you
liked it it's probably going to be some
more vanlife videos coming up so do
subscribe to the channel do comments do
ask questions if you have some I'll try
to answer them whether it's on the
comments or on the Facebook group or
email me directly on the website once
again I hope it was useful guys thanks a
lot for watching and I'll see you soon
on emerging alternatives see you guys bye
and if you haven't had a chance yet go
check out the intro video for the
channel and there's a whole video as
well about the building of the roof it
was quite a long process so I decided to
make a whole separate video about that
so go check it out if you're interested
subscribe